.. include:: ../Plugin/_plugin_substitutions_p17x.repl
.. _P178_page:

|P178_typename|
==================================================

|P178_shortinfo|

Plugin details
--------------

Type: |P178_type|

Name: |P178_name|

Status: |P178_status|

GitHub: |P178_github|_

Maintainer: |P178_maintainer|

Used libraries: |P178_usedlibraries|

Introduction
------------

The ``LU9685`` is being sold on a PCB as a 16 channel servo controller by various sellers like AliExpress, E-bay, etc.
However the chip itself is capable of addressing upto 20 servos.

These "16-channel"-boards resemble the design of many older PCA9685 boards and many sellers claim this ``LU9685`` is a direct replacement for the ``PCA9685``.
However, these are quite different chips.

The ``LU9685`` is specifically aimed to be used as a servo controller chip as it can only set the PWM pulse per pin between 0.5 ms .. 2.5 ms.

The PWM frequency can be set from 20 Hz - 300 Hz.

Supported hardware
------------------

|P178_usedby|

Configuration
-------------

* **Name**: Required by ESPEasy, must be unique among the list of available devices/tasks.

* **Enabled**: The device can be disabled or enabled. When not enabled the device should not use any resources.

I2C options
^^^^^^^^^^^

The available I2C settings here depend on the build used.

Device Settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **PWM Frequency**: The frequency of sending the PWM pulses. Range 20 .. 255 Hz.


Commands available
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: P178_commands.repl

.. Events
.. ~~~~~~

.. .. include:: P178_events.repl

Change log
----------

.. versionchanged:: 2.0
  ...

  |added|
  Major overhaul for 2.0 release.

.. versionadded:: 1.0
  ...

  |added|
  Initial release version.





